<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" epub:prefix="z3998: http://www.daisy.org/z3998/2012/vocab/structure/, se: https://standardebooks.org/vocab/1.0" xml:lang="en-US">
	<head>
		<title>Chapter 17: Roger Carries On</title>
		<link href="../css/core.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
		<link href="../css/local.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
	</head>
	<body epub:type="bodymatter z3998:fiction">
		<section id="chapter-17" epub:type="chapter">
			<h2 epub:type="title">
				<span epub:type="z3998:roman">XVII</span>
				<span epub:type="subtitle">Roger Carries On</span>
			</h2>
			<p>As has been intimated, Gray Roger did not perish in the floods of Nevian energy which destroyed his planetoid. While those terrific streamers of force emanating from the crimson obscurity surrounding the amphibians’ spaceship were driving into his defensive screens he sat impassive and immobile at his desk, his hard gray eyes moving methodically over his instruments and recorders.</p>
			<p>When the clinging mantle of force changed from deep red into shorter and even shorter wavelengths, however:</p>
			<p>“Baxter, Hartkopf, Chatelier, Anandrusung, Penrose, Nishimura, Mirsky …” he called off a list of names. “Report to me here at once!”</p>
			<p>“The planetoid is lost,” he informed his select group of scientists when they had assembled, “and we must abandon it in exactly fifteen minutes, which will be the time required for the robots to fill this first section with our most necessary machinery and instruments. Pack each of you one box of the things he most wishes to take with him, and report back here in not more than thirteen minutes. Say nothing to anyone else.”</p>
			<p>They filed out calmly, and as they passed out into the hall Baxter, perhaps a trifle less case-hardened than his fellows, at least voiced a thought for those they were so brutally deserting.</p>
			<p>“I say, it seems a bit thick to dash off this way and leave the rest of them; but still, I suppose. …”</p>
			<p>“You suppose correctly.” Bland and heartless Nishimura filled in the pause. “A small part of the planetoid may be able to escape; which, to me at least, is pleasantly surprising news. It cannot carry all our men and mechanisms, therefore only the most important of both are saved. What would you? For the rest it is simply what you call ‘the fortune of war,’ no?”</p>
			<p>“But the beautiful …” began the amorous Chatelier.</p>
			<p>“Hush, fool!” snorted Hartkopf. “One word of that to the ear of Roger and you too left behind are. Of such non-essentials the Universe full is, to be collected in times of ease, but in times hard to be disregarded. Und this is a time of <i xml:lang="de">schrecklichkeit</i> indeed!”</p>
			<p>The group broke up, each man going to his own quarters; to meet again in the First Section a minute or so before the zero time. Roger’s “office” was now packed so tightly with machinery and supplies that but little room was left for the scientists. The gray monstrosity still sat unmoved behind his dials.</p>
			<p>“But of what use is it, Roger?” the Russian physicist demanded. “Those waves are of some ultra-band, of a frequency immensely higher than anything heretofore known. Our screens should not have stopped them for an instant. It is a mystery that they have held so long, and certainly this single section will not be permitted to leave the planetoid without being destroyed.”</p>
			<p>“There are many things you do not know, Mirsky,” came the cold and level answer. “Our screens, which you think are of your own devising, have several improvements of my own in the formulae, and would hold forever had I the power to drive them. The screens of this section, being smaller, can be held as long as will be found necessary.”</p>
			<p>“Power!” the dumbfounded Russian exclaimed. “Why, we have almost infinite power⁠—unlimited⁠—sufficient for a lifetime of high expenditure!”</p>
			<p>But Roger made no reply, for the time of departure was at hand. He pressed down a tiny lever, and a mechanism in the power room threw in the gigantic plunger switches which launched against the Nevians the stupendous beam which so upset the complacence of Nerado the amphibian⁠—the beam into which was poured recklessly every resource of power afforded by the planetoid, careless alike of burnout and of exhaustion. Then, while all of the attention of the Nevians and practically all of their maximum possible power output was being devoted to the neutralization of that last desperate thrust, the metal wall of the planetoid opened and the First Section shot out into space. Full-driven as they were, Roger’s screens flared white as he drove through the temporarily lessened attack of the Nevians; but in their preoccupation the amphibians did not notice the additional disturbance and the section tore on, unobserved and undetected.</p>
			<p>Far out in space, Roger raised his eyes from the instrument panel and continued the conversation as though it had not been interrupted.</p>
			<p>“Everything is relative, Mirsky, and you have misused gravely the term ‘unlimited.’ Our power was, and is, very definitely limited. True, it then seemed ample for our needs, and is far superior to that possessed by the inhabitants of any solar system with which I am familiar; but the beings behind that red screen, whoever they are, have sources of power as far above ours as ours are above those of the Solarians.”</p>
			<p>“How do you know?”</p>
			<p>“That power, what is it?”</p>
			<p>“We have, then, the analyses of those fields recorded!” came simultaneous questions and exclamations.</p>
			<p>“Their source of power is the intra-atomic energy of iron. Complete; not the partial liberation incidental to the nuclear fission of such unstable isotopes as those of thorium, uranium, plutonium, and so on. Therefore much remains to be done before I can proceed with my plan⁠—I must have the most powerful structure in the macrocosmic universe.”</p>
			<p>Roger thought for minutes, nor did any one of his minions break the silence. Gharlane of Eddore did not have to wonder why such incredible advancement could have been made without his knowledge: after the fact, he knew. He had been and was still being hampered by a mind of power; a mind with which, in due time, he would come to grips.</p>
			<p>“I now know what to do,” he went on presently. “In the light of what I have learned, the losses of time, life, and treasure⁠—even the loss of the planetoid⁠—are completely insignificant.”</p>
			<p>“But what can you do about it?” growled the Russian.</p>
			<p>“Many things. From the charts of the recorders we can compute their fields of force, and from that point it is only a step to their method of liberating the energy. We shall build robots. They shall build other robots, who shall in turn construct another planetoid; one this time that, wielding the theoretical maximum of power, will be suited to my needs.”</p>
			<p>“And where will you build it? We are marked. Invisibility now is useless. Triplanetary will find us, even if we take up an orbit beyond that of Pluto!”</p>
			<p>“We have already left your Solarian system far behind. We are going to another system; one far enough removed so that the spy-rays of Triplanetary will never find us, and yet one that we can reach in a reasonable length of time with the energies at our command. Some five days will be required for the journey, however, and our quarters are cramped. Therefore make places for yourselves wherever you can, and lessen the tedium of those days by working upon whatever problems are most pressing in your respective researches.”</p>
			<p>The gray monster fell silent, immersed in what thoughts no one knew, and the scientists set out to obey his orders. Baxter, the British chemist, followed Penrose, the lantern-jawed, saturnine American engineer and inventor, as he made his way to the furthermost cubicle of the section.</p>
			<p>“I say, Penrose, I’d like to ask you a couple of questions, if you don’t mind?”</p>
			<p>“Go ahead. Ordinarily it’s dangerous to be a cackling hen anywhere around <em>him</em>, but I don’t imagine that he can hear anything here now. His system must be pretty well shot to pieces. You want to know all I know about Roger?”</p>
			<p>“Exactly so. You have been with him so much longer than I have, you know. In some ways he impresses one as being scarcely human, if you know what I mean. Ridiculous, of course, but of late I have been wondering whether he really <em>is</em> human. He knows too much, about too many things. He seems to be acquainted with many solar systems, to visit which would require lifetimes. Then, too, he has dropped remarks which would imply that he actually saw things that happened long before any living man could possibly have been born. Finally, he looks⁠—well, peculiar⁠—and certainly does not act human. I have been wondering, and have been able to learn nothing about him; as you have said, such talk as this aboard the planetoid was not advisable.”</p>
			<p>“You needn’t worry about being paid your price; that’s one thing. If we live⁠—and that was part of the agreement, you know⁠—we will get what we sold out for. You will become a belted earl. I have already made millions, and shall make many more. Similarly, Chatelier has had and will have his women, Anandrusung and Nishimura their cherished revenges, Hartkopf his power, and so on.” He eyed the other speculatively, then went on:</p>
			<p>“I might as well spill it all, since I’ll never have a better chance and since you should know as much as the rest of us do. You’re in the same boat with us and tarred with the same brush. There’s a lot of gossip, that may or may not be true, but I know one very startling fact. Here it is. My great-great-grandfather left some notes which, taken in connection with certain things I myself saw on the planetoid, prove beyond question that our Roger went to Harvard University at the same time he did. Roger was a grown man then, and the elder Penrose noted that he was marked, like this,” and the American sketched a cabalistic design.</p>
			<p>“What!” Baxter exclaimed. “An adept of North Polar Jupiter⁠—<em>then</em>?”</p>
			<p>“Yes. That was before the First Jovian War, you know, and it was those medicine-men⁠—really high-caliber scientists⁠—that prolonged that war so. …”</p>
			<p>“But I say, Penrose, that’s really a bit thick. When they were wiped out it was proved a lot of hocus-pocus. …”</p>
			<p>“<em>If</em> they were wiped out,” Penrose interrupted in turn. “Some of it may have been hocus-pocus, but most of it certainly was not. I’m not asking you to believe anything except that one fact; I’m just telling you the rest of it. But it is also a fact that those adepts knew things and did things that take a lot of explaining. Now for the gossip, none of which is guaranteed. Roger is supposed to be of Tellurian parentage, and the story is that his father was a moon-pirate, his mother a Greek adventuress. When the pirates were chased off the moon they went to Ganymede, you know, and some of them were captured by the Jovians. It seems that Roger was born at an instant of time sacred to the adepts, so they took him on. He worked his way up through the Forbidden Society as all adepts did, by various kinds of murder and job lots of assorted deviltries, until he got clear to the top⁠—the seventy-seventh mystery. …”</p>
			<p>“The secret of eternal youth!” gasped Baxter, awed in spite of himself.</p>
			<p>“Right, and he stayed Chief Devil, in spite of all the efforts of all his ambitious sub-devils to kill him, until the turning-point of the First Jovian War. He cut away then in a spaceship, and ever since then he has been working⁠—and working hard⁠—on some stupendous plan of his own that nobody else has ever got even an inkling of. That’s the story. True or not, it explains a lot of things that no other theory can touch. And now I think you’d better shuffle along; enough of this is a great plenty!”</p>
			<p>Baxter went to his own cubby, and each man of gray Roger’s cold-blooded crew methodically took up his task. True to prediction, in five days a planet loomed beneath them and their vessel settled through a reeking atmosphere toward a rocky and forbidding plain. Then for hours they plunged along, a few thousand feet above the surface of that strange world, while Roger with his analytical detectors sought the most favorable location from which to wrest the materials necessary for his program of construction.</p>
			<p>It was a world of cold; its sun was distant, pale, and wan. It had monstrous forms of vegetation, of which each branch and member writhed and fought with a grotesque and horrible individual activity. Ever and anon a struggling part broke from its parent plant and darted away in independent existence; leaping upon and consuming or being consumed by a fellow creature equally monstrous. This flora was of a uniform color, a lurid, sickly yellow. In form some of it was fern-like, some cactus-like, some vaguely tree-like; but it was all outrageous, inherently repulsive to all Solarian senses. And no less hideous were the animal-like forms of life which slithered and slunk rapaciously through that fantastic pseudo-vegetation. Snake-like, reptile-like, bat-like, the creatures squirmed, crawled, and flew; each covered with a dankly oozing yellow hide and each motivated by twin common impulses⁠—to kill and insatiably and indiscriminately to devour. Over this reeking wilderness Roger drove his vessel, untouched by its disgusting, its appalling ferocity and horror.</p>
			<p>“There should be intelligence, of a kind,” he mused, and swept the surface of the planet with an exploring beam. “Ah, yes, there is a city, of sorts,” and in a few minutes the outlaws were looking down upon a metal-walled city of roundly conical buildings.</p>
			<p>Inside these structures and between and around them there scuttled formless blobs of matter, one of which Roger brought up into his vessel by means of a tractor. Held immovable by the beam it lay upon the floor, a strangely extensile, amoeba-like, metal-studded mass of leathery substance. Of eyes, ears, limbs, or organs it apparently had none, yet it radiated an intensely hostile aura; a mental effluvium concentrated of rage and of hatred.</p>
			<p>“Apparently the ruling intelligence of the planet,” Roger commented. “Such creatures are useless to us; we can build machines in half the time that would be required for their subjugation and training. Still, it should not be permitted to carry back what it may have learned of us.” As he spoke the adept threw the peculiar being out into the air and dispassionately rayed it out of existence.</p>
			<p>“That thing reminds me of a man I used to know, back in Penobscot.” Penrose was as coldly callous as his unfeeling master. “The evenest-tempered man in town⁠—mad all the time!”</p>
			<p>Eventually Roger found a location which satisfied his requirements of raw materials, and made a landing upon that unfriendly soil. Sweeping beams denuded a great circle of life, and into that circle leaped robots. Robots requiring neither rest nor food, but only lubricants and power; robots insensible alike to that bitter cold and to that noxious atmosphere.</p>
			<p>But the outlaws were not to win a foothold upon that inimical planet easily, nor were they to hold it without effort. Through the weird vegetation of the circle’s bare edge there scuttled and poured along a horde of the metal-studded men⁠—if “men” they might be called⁠—who, ferocity incarnate, rushed the robot line. Mowed down by hundreds, still they came on; willing, it seemed to spend any number of lives in order that one living creature might once touch a robot with one outthrust metallic stud. Whenever that happened there was a flash of lightning, the heavy smoke of burning insulation, grease, and metal, and the robot went down out of control. Recalling his remaining automatons, Roger sent out a shielding screen, against which the defenders of their planet raged in impotent fury. For days they hurled themselves and their every force against that impenetrable barrier, then withdrew: temporarily stopped, but by no means acknowledging defeat.</p>
			<p>Then while Roger and his cohorts directed affairs from within their comfortable and now sufficiently roomy vessel, there came into being around it an industrial city of metal peopled by metallic and insensate mechanisms. Mines were sunk, furnaces were blown in, smelters belched forth into the already unbearable air their sulphurous fumes, rolling mills and machine shops were built and were equipped; and as fast as new enterprises were completed additional robots were ready to man them. In record time the heavy work of girders, members, and plates was well under way; and shortly thereafter light, deft, multi-fingered mechanisms began to build and to install the prodigious amount of precise machinery required by the vastness of the structure.</p>
			<p>As soon as he was sure that he would be completely free for a sufficient length of time, Roger-Gharlane assembled, boiled down and concentrated, his every mental force. He probed then, very gently, for whatever it was that had been and was still blocking him. He found it⁠—synchronized with it⁠—and in the instant hurled against it the fiercest thrust possible for his Eddorian mind to generate: a bolt whose twin had slain more than one member of Eddore’s Innermost Circle; a bolt whose energies, he had previously felt sure, would slay any living thing save only His Ultimate Supremacy, the All-Highest of Eddore.</p>
			<p>Now, however, and not completely to his surprise, that blast of force was ineffective; and the instantaneous riposte was of such intensity as to require for its parrying everything that Gharlane had. He parried it, however barely, and directed a thought at his unknown opponent.</p>
			<p>“You, whoever you may be, have found out that you cannot kill me. No more can I kill you. So be it. Do you still believe that you can keep me from remembering whatever it was that my ancestor was compelled to forget?”</p>
			<p>“Now that you have obtained a focal point we cannot prevent you from remembering; and merely to hinder you would be pointless. You may remember in peace.”</p>
			<p>Back and back went Gharlane’s mind. Centuries … millenia … cycles … eons. The trace grew dim, almost imperceptible, deeply buried beneath layer upon layer of accretions of knowledge, experience, and sensation which no one of many hundreds of his ancestors had even so much as disturbed. But every iota of knowledge that any of his progenitors had ever had was still his. However dim, however deeply buried, however suppressed and camouflaged by inimical force, he could now find it.</p>
			<p>He found it, and in the instant of its finding it was as though Enphilistor the Arisian spoke directly to him; as though the fused Elders of Arisia tried⁠—vainly now⁠—to erase from his own mind all knowledge of Arisia’s existence. The fact that such a race as the Arisians had existed so long ago was bad enough. That the Arisians had been aware throughout all those ages of the Eddorians, and had been able to keep their own existence secret, was worse. The crowning fact that the Arisians had had all this time in which to work unopposed against his own race made even Gharlane’s indomitable ego quail.</p>
			<p>This was <em>important</em>. Such minor matters as the wiping out of nonconforming cultures⁠—the extraordinarily rapid growth of which was now explained⁠—must wait. Eddore must revise its thinking completely; the pooled and integrated mind of the Innermost Circle must scrutinize every fact, every implication and connotation, of this new-old knowledge. Should he flash back to Eddore, or should he wait and take the planetoid, with its highly varied and extremely valuable contents? He would wait; a few moments more would be a completely negligible addition to the eons of time which had already elapsed since action should have been begun.</p>
			<p>The rebuilding of the planetoid, then, went on. Roger had no reason to suspect that there was anything physically dangerous within hundreds of millions of miles. Nevertheless, since he knew that he could no longer depend upon his own mental powers to keep him informed as to all that was going on around him, it was his custom to scan, from time to time, all nearby space by means of ether-borne detectors. Thus it came about that one day, as he sent out his beam, his hard gray eyes grew even harder.</p>
			<p>“Mirsky! Nishimura! Penrose! Come here!” he ordered, and showed them upon his plate an enormous sphere of steel, its offensive beams flaming viciously. “Is there any doubt whatever in your minds as to the System to which that ship belongs?”</p>
			<p>“None at all⁠—Solarian,” replied the Russian. “To narrow it still further, Triplanetarian. While larger than any I have ever seen before, its construction is unmistakable. They managed to trace us, and are testing out their weapons before attacking. Do we attack or do we run away?”</p>
			<p>“If Triplanetarian, and it surely is, we attack,” coldly. “This one section is armed and powered to defeat Triplanetary’s entire navy. We shall take that ship, and shall add its slight resources to our own. And it may even be that they have picked up the three who escaped me … I have never been balked for long. Yes, we shall take that vessel. And those three sooner or later. Except for the fact that their escape from me is a matter which should be corrected, I care nothing whatever about either Bradley or the woman. Costigan, however, is in a different category … Costigan <em>handled</em> me. …” Diamond-hard eyes glared balefully at the urge of thoughts to a clean and normal mind unthinkable.</p>
			<p>“To your posts,” he ordered. “The machines will continue to function under their automatic controls during the short time it will require to abate this nuisance.”</p>
			<p>“One moment!” A strange voice roared from the speakers. “Consider yourselves under arrest, by order of the Triplanetary Council! Surrender and you shall receive impartial hearing; fight us and you shall never come to trial. From what we have learned of Roger, we do not expect him to surrender, but if any of you other men wish to avoid immediate death, leave your vessel at once. We will come back for you later.”</p>
			<p>“Any of you wishing to leave this vessel have my full permission to do so,” Roger announced, disdaining any reply to the challenge of the <i epub:type="se:name.vessel.ship">Boise</i>. “Any such, however, will not be allowed inside the planetoid area after the rest of us return from wiping out that patrol. We attack in one minute.”</p>
			<p>“Would not one do better by stopping on?” Baxter, in the quarters of the American, was in doubt as to the most profitable course to pursue. “I should leave immediately if I thought that that ship could win; but I do not fancy that it can, do you?”</p>
			<p>“That ship? <em>One</em> Triplanetary ship against <em>us</em>?” Penrose laughed raucously. “Do as you please. I’d go in a minute if I thought that there was any chance of us losing; but there isn’t, so I’m staying. I know which side <em>my</em> bread’s buttered on. Those cops are bluffing, that’s all. Not bluffing exactly, either, because they’ll go through with it as long as they last. Foolish, but it’s a way they have⁠—they’ll die trying every time instead of running away, even when they know they’re licked before they start. They don’t use good judgment.”</p>
			<p>“None of you are leaving? Very well, you each know what to do,” came Roger’s emotionless voice. The stipulated minute having elapsed, he advanced a lever and the outlaw cruiser slid quietly into the air.</p>
			<p>Toward the poised <i epub:type="se:name.vessel.ship">Boise</i> Roger steered. Within range, he flung out a weapon new-learned and supposedly irresistible to any ferrous thing or creature, the red converter-field of the Nevians. For Roger’s analytical detector had stood him in good stead during those frightful minutes in the course of which the planetoid had borne the brunt of Nerado’s superhuman attack; in such good stead that from the records of those ingenious instruments he and his scientists had been able to reconstruct not only the generators of the attacking forces, but also the screens employed by the amphibians in the neutralization of similar beams. With a vastly inferior armament the smallest of Roger’s vessels had defeated the most powerful battleships of Triplanetary; what had he to fear in such a heavy craft as the one he now was driving, one so superlatively armed and powered? It was just as well for his peace of mind that he had no inkling that the harmless-looking sphere he was so blithely attacking was in reality the much-discussed, half-mythical super-ship upon which the Triplanetary Service had been at work so long; nor that its already unprecedented armament had been reenforced, thanks to that hated Costigan, with Roger’s own every worthwhile idea, as well as with every weapon and defense known to that arch-Nevian, Nerado!</p>
			<p>Unknowing and contemptuous, Roger launched his converter field, and instantly found himself fighting for his very life. For from Rodebush at the controls down, the men of the <i epub:type="se:name.vessel.ship">Boise</i> countered with wave after wave and with salvo after salvo of vibratory and material destruction. No thought of mercy for the men of the pirate ship could enter their minds. The outlaws had each been given a chance to surrender, and each had refused it. Refusing, they knew, as the Triplanetarians knew and as all modern readers know, meant that they were staking their lives upon victory. For with modern armaments few indeed are the men who live through the defeat in battle of a war-vessel of space.</p>
			<p>Roger launched his field of red opacity, but it did not reach even the <i epub:type="se:name.vessel.ship">Boise’s</i> screens. All space seemed to explode into violet splendor as Rodebush neutralized it, drove it back with his obliterating zone of force; but even that all-devouring zone could not touch Roger’s peculiarly efficient screen. The outlaw vessel stood out, unharmed. Ultraviolet, infrared, pure heat, infra-sound, solid beams of high-tension, high-frequency stuff in whose paths the most stubborn metals would be volatilized instantly, all iron-driven; every deadly and torturing vibration known was hurled against that screen: but it, too, was iron-driven, and it held. Even the awful force of the macro-beam was dissipated by it⁠—reflected, hurled away on all sides in coruscating torrents of blinding, dazzling energy. Cooper, Adlington, Spencer, and Dutton hurled against it their bombs and torpedoes⁠—and still it held. But Roger’s fiercest blasts and heaviest projectiles were equally impotent against the force-shields of the super-ship. The adept, having no liking for a battle upon equal terms, then sought safety in flight, only to be brought to a crashing, stunning halt by a massive tractor beam.</p>
			<p>“That must be that polycyclic screen that Conway reported on.” Cleveland frowned in thought. “I’ve been doing a lot of work on that, and I think I’ve calculated an opener for it, Fred, but I’ll have to have number ten projector and the whole output of number ten power room. Can you let me play with that much juice for a while? All right, Blake, tune her up to fifty-five thousand⁠—there, hold it! Now, you other fellows, listen! I’m going to try to drill a hole through that screen with a hollow, quasi-solid beam; like a diamond drill cutting out a core. You won’t be able to shove anything into the hole from outside the beam, so you’ll have to steer your cans out through the central orifice of number ten projector⁠—that’ll be cold, since I’m going to use only the outer ring. I don’t know how long I’ll be able to hold the hole open, though, so shoot them along as fast as you can. Ready? Here goes!”</p>
			<p>He pressed a series of contacts. Far below, in number ten converter room, massive switches drove home and the enormous mass of the vessel quivered under the terrific reaction of the newly-calculated, semi-material beam of energy that was hurled out, backed by the mightiest of all the mighty converters and generators of Triplanetary’s super-dreadnaught. That beam, a pipe-like hollow cylinder of intolerable energy, flashed out, and there was a rending, tearing crash as it struck Roger’s hitherto impenetrable wall. Struck and clung, grinding, boring in, while from the raging inferno that marked the circle of contact of cylinder and shield the pirate’s screen radiated scintillating torrents of crackling, streaming sparks, lightning like in length and in intensity.</p>
			<p>Deeper and deeper the gigantic drill was driven. It was through! Pierced Roger’s polycyclic screen; exposed the bare metal of Roger’s walls! And now, concentrated upon one point, flamed out in seemingly redoubled fury Triplanetary’s raging beams⁠—in vain. For even as they could not penetrate the screen, neither could they penetrate the wall of Cleveland’s drill, but rebounded from it in the cascaded brilliance of thwarted lightning.</p>
			<p>“Oh, what a dumbbell I am!” groaned Cleveland. “Why, oh <em>why</em> didn’t I have somebody rig up a secondary SX7 beam on Ten’s inner rings? Hop to it, will you, Blake, so that we’ll have it in case they are able to stop the cans?”</p>
			<p>But the pirates could not stop all of Triplanetary’s projectiles, now hurrying along inside the pipe as fast as they could be driven. In fact, for a few minutes gray Roger, knowing that he faced the first real defeat of his long life, paid no attention to them at all, nor to any of his useless offensive weapons: he struggled only to break away from the savage grip of the <i epub:type="se:name.vessel.ship">Boise’s</i> tractor rod. Futile. He could neither cut nor stretch that inexorably anchoring beam. Then he devoted his every resource to the closing of that unbelievable breach in his shield. Equally futile. His most desperate efforts resulted only in more frenzied displays of incandescence along the curved surface of contact of that penetrant cylinder. And through that terrific conduit came speeding package after package of destruction. Bombs, armor-piercing shells, gas shells of poisonous and corrosive fluids followed each other in close succession. The surviving scientists of the planetoid, expert gunners and ray-men all, destroyed many of the projectiles, but it was not humanly possible to cope with them all. And the breach could not be forced shut against the all but irresistible force of Cleveland’s “opener.” And with all his power Roger could not shift his vessel’s position in the grip of Triplanetary’s tractors sufficiently to bring a projector to bear upon the super-ship along the now unprotected axis of that narrow, but deadly tube.</p>
			<p>Thus it was that the end came soon. A warhead touched steel plating and there ensued a space-wracking explosion of atomic iron. Gaping wide, helpless, with all defenses down, other torpedoes entered the stricken hulk and completed its destruction even before they could be recalled. Atomic bombs literally volatilized most of the pirate vessel; vials of pure corrosion began to dissolve the solid fragments of her substance into dripping corruption. Reeking gasses filled every cranny of circumambient space as what was left of Roger’s battle cruiser began the long plunge to the ground. The super-ship followed the wreckage down, and Rodebush sent out an exploring spy-ray.</p>
			<p>“… resistance was such that it was necessary to employ corrosive, and ship and contents were completely disintegrated,” he dictated, a little later, into his vessel’s log. “While there were of course no remains recognizable as human, it is certain that Roger and his last eleven men died; since it is clear that the circumstances and conditions were such that no life could possibly have survived.”</p>
			<hr style="width: 45%;"/>
			<p>It is true that the form of flesh which had been known as Roger was destroyed. The solids and liquids of its substance were resolved into their component molecules or atoms. That which had energized that form of flesh, however, could not be harmed by any physical force, however applied. Therefore that which made Roger what he was; the essence which was Gharlane of Eddore; was actually back upon his native planet even before Rodebush completed his study of what was left of the pirates’ vessel.</p>
			<p>The Innermost Circle met, and for a space of time which would have been very long indeed for any Earthly mind those monstrous being considered as one multi-ply intelligence every newly-exposed phase and facet of the truth. At the end, they knew the Arisians as well as the Arisians knew them. The All-Highest then called a meeting of all the minds of Eddore.</p>
			<p>“… hence it is clear that these Arisians, while possessing minds of tremendous latent capability, are basically soft, and therefore inefficient,” he concluded. “Not weak, mind you, but scrupulous and unrealistic; and it is by taking advantage of these characteristics that we shall ultimately triumph.”</p>
			<p>“A few details, All-Highest, if Your Ultimate Supremacy would deign,” a lesser Eddorian requested. “Some of us have not been able to perceive at all clearly the optimum lines of action.”</p>
			<p>“While detailed plans of campaign have not yet been worked out, there will be several main lines of attack. A purely military undertaking will of course be one, but it will not be the most important. Political action, by means of subversive elements and obstructive minorities, will prove much more useful. Most productive of all, however, will be the operations of relatively small but highly organized groups whose functions will be to negate, to tear down and destroy, every bulwark of what the weak and spineless adherents of Civilization consider the finest things in life⁠—love, truth, honor, loyalty, purity, altruism, decency, and so on.”</p>
			<p>“Ah, love … extremely interesting. Supremacy, this thing they call sex,” Gharlane offered. “What a silly, what a meaningless thing it is! I have studied it intensively, but am not yet fully enough informed to submit a complete and conclusive report. I do know, however, that we can and will use it. In our hands, vice will become a potent weapon indeed. Vice … drugs … greed … gambling … extortion … blackmail … lust … abduction … assassination … ah-h-h!”</p>
			<p>“Exactly. There will be room, and need, for the fullest powers of every Eddorian. Let me caution you all, however, that little or none of this work is to be done by any of us in person. We must work through echelon upon echelon of higher and lower executives and supervisors if we are to control efficiently the activities of the thousands of billions of operators which we must and will have at work. Each echelon of control will be vastly greater in number than the one immediately above it, but correspondingly lower in the individual power of its component personnel. The sphere of activity of each supervisor, however small or great, will be clearly and sharply defined. Rank, from the operators at planetary-population levels up to and including the Eddorian Directorate, will be a linear function of ability. Absolute authority will be delegated. Full responsibility will be assumed. Those who succeed will receive advancement and satisfaction of desire; those who fail will die.</p>
			<p>“Since the personnel of the lower echelons will be of small value and easy of replacement, it is of little moment whether or not they become involved in reverses affecting the still lower echelons whose activities they direct. The echelon immediately below us of Eddore, however⁠—and incidentally, it is my thought that the Ploorans will best serve as our immediate underlings⁠—must never, under any conditions, allow any hint of any of its real business to become known either to any member of any lower echelon or to any adherent of Civilization. This point is vital; everyone here must realize that only in that way can our own safety remain assured, and must take pains to see to it that any violator of this rule is put instantly to death.</p>
			<p>“Those of you who are engineers will design ever more powerful mechanisms to use against the Arisians. Psychologists will devise and put into practice new methods and techniques, both to use against the able minds of the Arisians and to control the activities of mentally weaker entities. Each Eddorian, whatever his field or his ability, will be given the task he is best fitted to perform. That is all.”</p>
			<hr style="width: 45%;"/>
			<p>And upon Arisia, too, while there was no surprise, a general conference was held. While some of the young Watchmen may have been glad that the open conflict for which they had been preparing so long was now about to break, Arisia as a whole was neither glad nor sorry. In the Great Scheme of Things which was the Cosmic All, this whole affair was an infinitesimal incident. It had been foreseen. It had come. Each Arisian would do to the fullest extent of his ability that which the very fact of his being an Arisian would compel him to do. It would pass.</p>
			<p>“In effect, then, our situation has not really changed,” Eukonidor stated, rather than asked, after the Elders had again spread their Visualization for public inspection and discussion. “This killing, it seems, must go on. This stumbling, falling, and rising; this blind groping; this futility; this frustration; this welter of crime, disaster, and bloodshed. Why? It seems to me that it would be much better⁠—cleaner, simpler, faster, more efficient, and involving infinitely less bloodshed and suffering⁠—for us to take now a direct and active part, as the Eddorians have done and will continue to do.”</p>
			<p>“Cleaner, youth, yes; and simpler. Easier; less bloody. It would not, however, be better; or even good; because no endpoint would ever be attained. Young civilizations advance only by overcoming obstacles. Each obstacle surmounted, each step of progress made, carries its suffering as well as its reward. We could negate the efforts of any echelon below the Eddorians themselves, it is true. We could so protect and shield each one of our protégé races that not a war would be waged and not a law would be broken. But to what end? Further contemplation will show you immature thinkers that in such a case not one of our races would develop into what the presence of the Eddorians has made it necessary for them to become.</p>
			<p>“From this it follows that we would never be able to overcome Eddore; nor would our conflict with that race remain indefinitely at stalemate. Given sufficient time during which to work against us, they will be able to win. However, if every Arisian follows his line of action as it is laid out in this Visualization, all will be well. Are there any more questions?”</p>
			<p>“None. The blanks which you may have left can be filled in by a mind of very moderate power.”</p>
			<hr style="width: 45%;"/>
			<p>“Look here, Fred.” Cleveland called attention to the plate, upon which was pictured a horde of the peculiar inhabitants of that ghastly planet, wreaking their frenzied electrical wrath upon everything within the circle bared of native life by Roger’s destructive beams. “I was just going to suggest that we clean up the planetoid that Roger started to build, but I see that the local boys and girls are attending to it.”</p>
			<p>“Just as well, perhaps. I would like to stay and study these people a little while, but we must get back onto the trail of the Nevians,” and the <i epub:type="se:name.vessel.ship">Boise</i> leaped away into space, toward the line of flight of the amphibians.</p>
			<p>They reached that line and along it they traveled at full normal blast. As they traveled their detecting receivers and amplifiers were reaching out with their utmost power; ultra-instruments capable of rendering audible any signal originating within many light-years of them, upon any possible communications band. And constantly at least two men, with every sense concentrated in their ears, were listening to those instruments.</p>
			<p>Listening⁠—straining to distinguish in the deafening roar of background noise from the over-driven tubes any sign of voice or of signal:</p>
			<p>Listening⁠—while, millions upon millions of miles beyond even the prodigious reach of those ultra-instruments, three human beings were even then sending out into empty space an almost hopeless appeal for the help so desperately needed!</p>
		</section>
	</body>
</html>
